Samsung has just launched a bucket load
of nextg products there's new folding
phones there's new earphones new watches
including for the first time ever a
watch Ultra and then the thing that I've
been most excited about the Galaxy ring
and I've just been handson with all of
it and fingers in so here's what's good
and here's what's less good so there's
two new phones the Z flip 6 and then the
Z4 6 and I got to say I have a lot of
respect for this flip because it is a
design Improvement in fact compared to
the last flip I think it looks smarter
from every angle it looks cleaner it
feels cleaner thanks to the matte finish
on the sides the camera Rings now match
the color of the body you pick the hinge
protrudes out less and crucially the
display crease on the inside is less
noticeable oh and the screen also has a
new layer that makes it more impact
resistant plus a new coating that's
meant to reduce scratches and also
fingerprints major key feature if that
works out over time but the thing that
I'm really happy about is that the
design is not the focus here all of the
best improvements are under the hood
it's got the latest Snapdragon hm3 chip
now with for the first time ever on a
flip phone a vapor chamber which gets
heat away from that chip to keep it fast
it's got improved speakers it's got 12
gigs of RAM by default instead of last
year 8 gigs a bigger 4,000 mAh battery
instead of 3,700 and an inner screen
that now goes up to 2,600 nits of
brightness compared to 1750 these are
substantial jumps the ultra wide camera
has been upgraded slightly with a bigger
sensor but the main camera has been
upgraded majorly this is now 50 mapel
after having been 12 for far too long
and it's much better for it it's good
enough now that even without any
separate dedicated zoom camera you can
still zoom in 10 times and get a sharp
output there's a couple of strange
features that accompany those
improvements like a camcorder mode which
nudges all the controls to the other
side of the screen for your thumb but I
don't understand why anyone would want
to do this this isn't a 9s camcorder and
that's a good thing and then the cameras
can now also auto zoom while taking
photos using your front screen but the
features a little bit slow to be useful
the important thing is that the cameras
are finally not just passible on the Z
flips but actually good another
interesting tidbit I found out during my
briefing was that zflip users change
their wallpaper more times than any
other type of phone user which I guess
is why Samsung is leaning into a few
funky cosmetic extras too like
interactive wallpapers that you can tilt
flip and touch I don't really see the
appeal beyond the first 10 minutes
though there's ambient photos which
means whatever wallpaper you apply to
your cover screen you can mirror the
current time of day and weather
conditions onto it that I might actually
use and then they're also introducing
the flip suit 2.0 cases which can have
LEDs embedded inside the case that can
draw power from the phone to light up
when notifications come in I wouldn't
personally buy one but I I sure enjoyed
seeing it the final thing though and the
thing that I wasn't expecting to see
coming into this is that these folding
phones are also where Samsung is showing
off their next gen Galaxy Ai and it's
actually improving rather quickly
there's a couple of bits that I'm not so
sure about like when someone messages
you now you get smart suggest suggested
replies on your cover screen the phone
looks at the last seven messages sent to
understand the tone of the conversation
and then serves you up your options I
need to test it more thoroughly to see
if it actually Nails human tone cuz
that's typically a key failing point but
the idea is solid there's portrait
studio photo editing which lets you use
a photo that you've taken with a person
in and then AI turns that person's face
into a highly stylized depiction it does
work quite well but I don't know what I
would use it for it would be cool if it
applied the effect to the entire image
and not just your face but as it stands
all I can think of is you could maybe
use it to generate some slightly uncanny
valy alternative profile pictures of
yourself but live translation you know
the feature that we saw earlier this
year when Samsung announced Galaxy AI
that wasn't very good that is noticeably
better here these new phones are now
starting with an AI that has access to
an improved language pack improved
microphones that can pick up your voice
better and improved AI noise suppression
that lets those microphones Focus just
on what you're saying I'm not sure which
of these ingredients is making the most
difference but in my early testing the
feature does seem to work quite a bit
better and faster than it did at launch
oh yeah and it also now works on
third-party apps so we can have a live
translation call on WhatsApp but there's
an extra twist now because you can also
have that translation experience while
in the same room as another person
thanks to an updated interpreter mode
which lets use both screens at the same
time so each person can only see their
own language it's still not 100 % there
with the translation but I can feel it
creeping closer and until chat gbt's
realtime translation feature fully rolls
out this is probably the best
implementation of it that I've ever seen
and what I'm pretty happy about is that
the flip 6 is all of these things and at
least here in the UK without going up in
price it's still
149 there are actually a few more AI
features but I'll show you the rest on
the fold six because this phone is
interesting for the opposite reason it's
much less about internal improvements
but has had a lot more work done to the
exterior with sadly also A50 price bump
versus last year so it's immediately
noticeably lighter at 239 G and it comes
with this new titanium frame which is
making it only 7 G heavier than the
non-folding s24 ultra it's thinner it's
5.6 mm when it's open the s24 ultra is
8.6 for context they've made it shorter
and wider which in my books are actually
both perks so you can actually reach the
top of the phone and also feel like you
have a more natural ratio to type and
scroll pages with on the cover screen
and it just looks so much neater from
the front the squared edges the Slimmer
even borders the fact that those borders
actually follow the natural curve of the
device and this fold is actually where
you particularly notice the more compact
hinge you could probably fall just about
anyone at this point into thinking this
is a normal non-folding flagship phone
now there are also spec bumps here again
the latest Snapdragon 8 gen 3 chip with
a 1.6 times larger Vapor chamber than
the last gen the screens are super
bright both inside and outside go up to
2,600 nits and this phone gets the same
slight upgrade to its Ultra wide camera
but the AI features are the most
interesting actually and almost all of
these should come to most recent Samsung
phones too there's a new smart select
which is kind of like taking a
screenshot but a screenshot of the
specific thing that you're looking at
without having to manually drag four
corners and crop the screenshot yourself
you can instant copy just the thing you
want on any page and it is good do you
remember the circle to search feature
that's improving too it now lets you
Circle QR codes to go straight to the
link or equations to get not just the
answer actually but also the entire
methodology rip College professors oh
and then sketch to image is really wacky
you scribble something down you specify
a style of finish and it manages to
produce a result that feels weirdly
human like it does neaten up everything
you do it applies a really convincing
artistic effect but it also retains just
enough of your base image to still make
it feel like you made that and it's one
of those features that actually makes my
head start to spin with all the
possibilities like sometimes when we
make videos I have a really specific
vision of the graphic that I want to
show to visualize the point that I'm
making this could actually allow me to
make that graphic myself and you can
also sketch to image on top of an
existing image and this I think this has
a very high ceiling but I think the
actual feature itself needs a little bit
more cooking the idea is that if you
decide you want a pair of glasses or a
cool tie or some devil horns in an image
you just sketch them in and the phone
then literally creates those objects
within your scene using AI to factor in
the lighting and the shadows and the
objects in the real photo and sometimes
it was breathtaking and I was so
impressed how the objects don't look
like cheap little stickers slapped on
top of your photo but full resolution
objects baked inside of them but then
other times it was fiddly and also
produced some pretty weird looking
things that didn't really make sense in
the context of that image aside from all
that Samsung have also said that the
crease on the inside screen of both this
and the flip 6 is now down to just 100
microns instead of 240 but it doesn't
feel like that much of a difference to
me it's definitely not the best phone
for this that you can get right now and
it does bug me that the inner camera
still looks like it's genuinely VGA
quality and that there's still no way to
store the S Pen inside of the phone like
you can on the s24 ultra I don't know
still slightly weird product for me okay
there's new watches too so this is the
Galaxy watch 7 it's a pretty minor
update key things are a new chip the
w100 that should make it more responsive
and also last longer per charge it's got
AI suggested replies you know just like
the Z flip 6 on its cover screen Slimmer
screen bezels and a new sleep apnea
feature which can help you diagnose the
condition by looking for patterns in
your sleep I feel like they've
purposefully kept this as a very minor
update to make room for the much bigger
update because this is the first time in
seven generations of Samsung watches
that we've had a watch Ultra and this
thing's pretty jacked it's water
resistant up to 100 m it's made of a
solid ID block of grade 4 titanium which
allows it to withstand 10 atmospheres of
pressure and makes it feel like an
absolute unit on your wrist the screen
goes up to 3,000 nits of brightness and
it's also got a red night mode watch
face which reduces battery consumption
and eye strain does that sound
familiar oh yes of course the Apple
watch Ultra and the second you notice
the connection between those two
products you cannot stop seeing it this
thing has the same material the same
finish it's even got the orange band
just like apple but I mean most
upsetting to me is that Samsung has even
tried to copy the shape Samsung watches
are always circular which I would say
isn't quite as practical as the squer
Apple watches cuz you get less usable
screen area but it's what makes them
look way more elegant you know they look
so much more like a classic watch than
Apple's square body this Abomination is
a circular screen on a squarer body it
feels like in the pursuit of trying to
make this like Apple's it forgot to do
what Samsung does best it's the worst of
Both Worlds aside from the question
design decisions the watch Ultra does
have some extra quite specialized sport
tracking features one cool one is that
when you're running you can race against
past versions of your own times which
was basically my entire childhood on
Mario Kart it's got dual GPS so you're
less likely to get lost a mahive battery
that can give you up to 48 hours of
exercise tracking time a quick button
that you can set to launch any app or
specific workout that you do
particularly often and also I have to
say a pretty cool new strap mechanism
which allows you to hold this button and
just pull pull your existing strap out
before pushing in a new one although it
doesn't seem like this has any
compatibility with past Galaxy watch
straps now only other weird thing that I
noticed is the watch that I was using
was pretty laggy pretty laggy for the
first Ultra watch specifically designed
for performance Fanatics which I believe
is the term they used it might just be
the pre-production software though so
I'm somewhat willing to give them the
benefit of the doubt but hey at least
it's cheaper than the Apple watch Ultra
at 599 instead of
799 okay let's talk about the new
earbuds by the way this is the first
time that I've ever covered all the
products from a launch event like this
so if you want to see more of these then
please let me know so these are the
Galaxy buds 3 and these are the buds 3
Pro and they're a pretty big departure
for Samsung because well because they're
actually kind of normal looking Samsung
has built up a bit of a reputation as
the one company who likes to do
earphones differently but this right
here almost feels like an admission that
the wackiness isn't working and people
just want the status quo that's not to
say that there isn't design flare here I
think the transparent lid of the cases
looks Wicked and the earphones
themselves have blade likee protrusions
instead of circular stems which I would
be lying if I said didn't instantly give
them plus two points in my books
especially the pros which integrate LED
strips into those blades I'm not really
sure why you'd want LEDs on your
earphones I guess I mean the best use
case I can think of is if you lost them
in the dark they could maybe help you to
find them yeah let's be honest they're
just there to look cool but when I
actually put these things in my ears it
quickly made me realize that but while I
do love looking at these blades I don't
like using them both the normal and the
pros fit really nicely in my ears and
you can control your music by pinching
the blades and also sliding up and down
on them but they're so fiddly these
blades are not a comfortable or
intuitive shape two pinch or even just
hold I kept dropping the things because
of how severely UNG grippable they are
and trying to slide up and down to
change volume it just felt like an
abrasive maneuver that kept pushing the
earphones out of my ears I will
definitely give them a second chance
when I get my own pair but that was my
first impression on the bright side
though these things sound great both the
buds 3 and the pros bright highs Punchy
lows plenty of detail I was very
impressed and slightly concerned just
how loud the pros got and those also
have higher quality Bluetooth
transmission for if you're a big
listener of lossless music Samsung
saying that the microphones have
improved and that both earphones can now
reach 30 hours of battery life with the
case closer to 25 if you turn the noise
cancelling on which is a really good
figure but also the sound leakage was
very well controlled even on the basic
buds 3 which don't seal themselves
inside your ears I was blasting burner
boy and no one around me could hear
anything the only other thing is the
active noise cancellation which both
actually have so both teers of earphones
will fire out inverse sound waves to try
and neutralize the incoming sound waves
but eh it's okay the base buds 3 have
enough isolation to notice that the
feature is on but not enough to tangibly
cancel out back background sounds the
pros they are a lot better and they can
also adapt on the fly so they can reduce
their noise cancellation when someone
talks to you or a siren comes on that
they decide needs to be heard which
actually really does work but it's just
that the max level noise cancellation is
still not up there with the best of the
best if you want to block out a loud
train or a construction site but now
it's time for the most curious product
the one ring to roll them all this is
the first time that a major smartphone
maker has made a smart ring and going
handson or on hand with this thing I can
see why so what's the hardware like well
it's all very well put together the ring
comes in three colors a black a silver
and a gold it's not exciting to look at
but it'll blend in nicely these are
actually pre-production units I'm told
the final ones will hide the internal
circuitry better but even now you can
very much tell that the Galaxy ring is
designed to be put on and forgotten you
don't need to worry about braking the
thing is ip68 water resistant and can
withstand pressure equivalent to 100 m
depth immersion you don't need to worry
about battery cuz the thing has no
screen so it lasts up to 7 Days on a
charge although bear in mind that the
smaller ring sizes do also have smaller
batteries and you don't need to worry
about carrying it because I mean the
thing only weighs 3 G so if you struggle
with that
then maybe you do need a Galaxy Ring the
only real design features are a slightly
concave exterior which I assume just
helps to protect the middle of the ring
from scuffing and then this little Ridge
that you keep on your palm side to make
sure that all the sensors are in the
right place I will say I do think the
hard case it comes in is very cool it
reminds me of something that the nothing
company might produce with an LED ring
to indicate its current battery level
and this just like an airpod case can
also carry charge to juice the actual
ring up many times they didn't give me
an exact number but given that the ring
has up to a 23.5 Mah cell and that can
last a week and then that the case has a
361 million cell it would seem that with
the two together you could be looking at
between 1 and two months of charge
without needing Main's power which is
wild here's the elephant in the room
though how does the smart ring fit in
with the smart watch because there's a
lot of overlap the ring still does
activity tracking and it can Auto detect
if you start running and autoc calculate
calories Etc it still has a heart rate
sensor that can also do some interesting
stuff like tell you how much to exert
yourself while training to keep your
heart rate in just the right place for
calorie burn it still tracks your sleep
and assigns you an animal that
represents your sleep style and it
rounds it all off with a Vitality score
a measure of your current health based
on sleep activity and heart rate paired
with recommendations to try and improve
that stat so in one sense it's like the
best parts of a smartwatch without the
clunkiness but then in another sense
it's just like a smartwatch without half
the features I mean the thing's got no
screen so instantly 50% of the things
that require one are wiped and the other
50% needs you to now use your phone app
as your display it's designed to consume
less power it's got smaller sensors
which I assume won't be as accurate
every everything about it is
miniaturized there's no voice assistant
so you can't ask it to remember stuff
there's no haptic feedback there's no
NFC so it can't make payments there's no
microphon so it can't ring people not to
mention the added hassle of rings being
not a one- siiz fits-all solution like a
watch meaning that you might well have
to first order a sizing kit to figure
out which one is for you I think the
ring is designed for three types of
people a those who want basic Smartwatch
features but just can't stand having a
smartwatch B those who want to set it
and forget it this is the way more
passive nonth thought taking way of
having access to your stats as opposed
to the much more involved watch in a
weird kind of way it's it's a bit like
choosing a cat over a dog but the really
interesting one is c for those who want
to go all in on their tracking because
the ring can also combine with the watch
so if you're using a Galaxy watch at the
same time as a ring they talk to each
other they use both sets of sensors at
the same time when you're doing things
to reduce the margin of error in your
readings and that is pretty fascinating
and something I've never seen a company
do before let me know if you want to see
a detailed review of this thing and
while we're talking about things that
are higher Tech than they look did you
know that surf shark VPN servers are Ram
only see when you use a VPN what you're
doing is re-rooting your internet
traffic so that instead of going
directly to your internet service
provider and the website owners it's
instead going through a private server
that masks your real details but here's
the thing there's a lot of EPN that
store that data on their private servers
not necessarily for malicious reasons
but anytime your information is stored
it creates a new Avenue through which
someone can access it so what surf Shar
VPN does instead is swaps out the hard
drives in its servers for Ram you know
the same Random Access Memory that
exists in your computer simply because
that way it's very fast and nothing
stored Ram is designed to be temporary
storage that wipes itself every single
time the server is rebooted plus this is
like the best offer I've ever seen from
these guys with the code boss they're
now offering a package for just $29 per
month which will cover the VPN use for
every single person you know with four
extra months for free isn't that crazy